---
layout: post
title:      "Four times I didn't start coding and one time I did"
date:       2020-02-25 20:05:07 +0000
permalink:  four_times_i_didnt_start_coding_and_one_time_i_did
---

After starting this Flatiron course, it almost feels like my whole life was leading up to this moment of finally learning how to code. There were many times in my life where could have started, but failed to jump at the opportunity. Now, however, full of passion and determination, it feels like the perfect time and the chance I have been waiting for. Here are four of the times I could have started coding, but didn't, and the fifth time, when I did.

1.  As a child, I always had an interest in science. In middle school, my biggest extracurricular activity was Science Olympiad. Because of this, my mom thought it was a great idea to enroll me in a week-long computer science course the summer after I finished 8th grade. Unfortunately, this was also the same time that my raging tween hormones kept me from really caring about anything except my social life, and I wasted most of that class talking to my desk partner and playing games.

2.  In high school, over the hormones (mostly), I again threw myself into science activities, becoming a section captain of the robotics team. This would have been a great time to start coding! There I was, surrounded by people taking AP computer science, but my focus on the team was the actual physical building of the robot. I bought materials, got my hands dirty, cut many a metal rod with a slightly shoddy hand saw, and had a blast, but didn't learn the first thing about the actual coding of the robot. 

3. In college, I made the decision to double major in Physics and Vocal Performance (a classical singing and opera music major). While I enjoyed both, I had made the decision that after college I was going to fully devote myself to my musical side, as I wanted to see what I could do when I was no longer splitting my focus. My lab partners constantly encouraged me to take an introductory computer science class, but I resisted. I was going to be an opera singer, I said. I wanted any extra classes I took, as I stuffed my schedule to the brim, to be singing-related. I could have taken some computer science classes and instead took four semesters of German. Das ist alles.

4. A year after graduating from college, I worked at Starbucks to pay for voice lessons and basic needs. I quickly realized that I needed to find a side gig that was less physically exhausting and that I could do from anywhere. I explored many avenues such as voiceover work and transcription, but nothing seemed to grab me. It was in this time that I first tried coding, using the free online Harvard CS50 class. Unfortunately, as an extremely kinesthetic learner, I found it hard to stay focused and follow along with lectures that were several hours long, and never finished the course. 

5. Finally, we arrive at today. After several years of difficult audition day trips, full months with no days off, and reaching my goal of getting all of my income from singing gigs and music teaching, I have come to discover that it just doesn't fulfil me in the way that I hoped. Having loved science and learning my whole life, I missed having tangible problems to solve. I realized that my work-life balance was way off-kilter, and worst of all, I was meeting people who were further down the path than me by 5, 10, or 20 years, and they were all having the same problems. My priorities started shifting. Quality time spent with loved ones was becoming more important to me than time on stage, and I realized I didn't want the life of a traveling musician anymore. I wanted to settle down with a fulfilling day job and fill my nights and weekends with music instead. I miss the days when music felt like an escape, as it now feels like just plain work most of the time. 

It is this shift that directed me to the Flatiron school. After talking with some of my old physics friends, I discovered a majority of them were happily in software development positions and they encouraged me to check it out as a career option. I knew I didn't want to go back to school, so I asked around about bootcamps. I started doing the prep work for a few bootcamps, and I was immediately hooked. Being a big kinesthetic learner, the frequent labs and tests of knowledge I had just learned really helped me absorb the material. I decided to go ahead and sign up for the self-paced boot camp so that I could work on the curriculum in between singing gigs and teaching, and I've never looked back! I started six weeks ago, and while there have been some significantly harder weeks than others, I've never felt so fulfilled. It's honestly relaxing to come home after a subjective art-filled day to something more logic-based, where I know I am constantly learning new things. I can't wait to see where my time in this course will take me!
